smart-ai-replies.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Smart AI Replies'
---

<Info>
  This feature is currently in Beta and is not available to all customers. If you are interested in
  trying this feature, please reach out to us at [help@plain.com](mailto:help@plain.com) or via our
  shared Slack channel.
</Info>

Smart AI Responses allows you to generate responses to support requests based on your documentation and the contents of a thread.

<Frame>![Smart AI Replies](/public/images/smart-ai-replies.png)</Frame>

Responses are not automatically sent, the composer will be populated with the suggested response, which you can either send as is, or edit as you wish.

All AI features in Plain are opt-in. More information on our use of OpenAI and our data processing
policies can be found in our DPA.

### Indexing documentation for use with Smart AI Responses

Documentation can be indexed by using the [Plain CLI](https://github.com/team-plain/cli). With it you can index:

- a single URL
- a sitemap URL (each entry in the sitemap is indexed)

For installation and usage instructions, please see the [Plain CLI docs](https://github.com/team-plain/cli).

### Automation

To keep indexed documents up to date, you can automate the indexing process the Plain CLI on a schedule.

#### Github Actions example

Here is an example Github Action to re-index the documents using the [Plain CLI](https://github.com/team-plain/cli) run on a schedule.

- The action runs every 3 hours
- The action uses the `PLAIN_API_KEY` secret to authenticate with the Plain API
- The action indexes all URLs in the sitemap

```yaml
name: Index docs

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 */3 * * *'

jobs:
  lint:
    name: Index Documents
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: '18'

      - name: Install CLI
        run: npm install -g @team-plain/cli@latest

      - name: Index Documents
        run: plain index-sitemap https://www.plain.com/docs/sitemap.xml
        env:
          PLAIN_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.PLAIN_API_KEY }}`
```

Commit message:

Update Smart AI Reply docs (#118)
* add setting info

* response -> reply

smart-ai-replies.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Smart AI Replies'
---

<Info>
  This feature is currently in Beta and is not available to all customers. If you are interested in
  trying this feature, please reach out to us at [help@plain.com](mailto:help@plain.com) or via our
  shared Slack channel.
</Info>

Smart AI Replies allow you to generate replies to support requests based on your documentation and the contents of a thread.

<Frame>![Smart AI Replies](/public/images/smart-ai-replies.png)</Frame>

Replies are not automatically sent, the composer will be populated with the suggested reply, which you can either send as is, or edit as you wish.

To enable Smart AI Replies go to **Settings** → **Workflow** and toggle the **Smart AI Replies** setting.

All AI features in Plain are opt-in. More information on our use of OpenAI and our data processing
policies can be found in our DPA.

### Indexing documentation for use with Smart AI Replies

Documentation can be indexed by using the [Plain CLI](https://github.com/team-plain/cli). With it you can index:

- a single URL
- a sitemap URL (each entry in the sitemap is indexed)

For installation and usage instructions, please see the [Plain CLI docs](https://github.com/team-plain/cli).

### Automation

To keep indexed documents up to date, you can automate the indexing process the Plain CLI on a schedule.

#### Github Actions example

Here is an example Github Action to re-index the documents using the [Plain CLI](https://github.com/team-plain/cli) run on a schedule.

- The action runs every 3 hours
- The action uses the `PLAIN_API_KEY` secret to authenticate with the Plain API
- The action indexes all URLs in the sitemap

```yaml
name: Index docs

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 */3 * * *'

jobs:
  lint:
    name: Index Documents
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: '18'

      - name: Install CLI
        run: npm install -g @team-plain/cli@latest

      - name: Index Documents
        run: plain index-sitemap https://www.plain.com/docs/sitemap.xml
        env:
          PLAIN_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.PLAIN_API_KEY }}`
```
