slack/how-slack-messages-create-threads.mdx, before:

---
title: 'How Slack messages create threads in Plain'
---

Everyone sends messages in Slack differently. Here’s a high-level breakdown of how Slack messages create threads in Plain:

1. **Multiple messages in main channel -** multiple messages sent subsequently in the main channel will be treated as one thread in Plain.
   ![Slack Setup 1](/public/images/slack-setup-1.png)
   ![Slack Setup 2](/public/images/slack-setup-2.png)

2. **Messages in a Slack thread-** All messages on a Slack thread will be mapped to the thread in Plain created by the message in the main channel.
   ![Slack Setup 3](/public/images/slack-setup-3.png)
   ![Slack Setup 4](/public/images/slack-setup-4.png)

3. **Multiple messages in the main channel, separated by a thread -** Once a Slack thread is created, the next message in the main channel will create a _new_ thread in Plain.
   ![Slack Setup 5](/public/images/slack-setup-5.png)
   ![Slack Setup 6](/public/images/slack-setup-6.png)

You can also configure alternative ingestion modes, based on your preference, see [Ingestion Modes](/slack/ingestion-modes)

Commit message:

mention that messages updates/deletes get reflected in Plain

slack/how-slack-messages-create-threads.mdx, after:

---
title: 'How Slack messages create threads in Plain'
---

Everyone sends messages in Slack differently. Here’s a high-level breakdown of how Slack messages create threads in Plain:

1. **Multiple messages in main channel -** multiple messages sent subsequently in the main channel will be treated as one thread in Plain.
   ![Slack Setup 1](/public/images/slack-setup-1.png)
   ![Slack Setup 2](/public/images/slack-setup-2.png)

2. **Messages in a Slack thread-** All messages on a Slack thread will be mapped to the thread in Plain created by the message in the main channel.
   ![Slack Setup 3](/public/images/slack-setup-3.png)
   ![Slack Setup 4](/public/images/slack-setup-4.png)

3. **Multiple messages in the main channel, separated by a thread -** Once a Slack thread is created, the next message in the main channel will create a _new_ thread in Plain.
   ![Slack Setup 5](/public/images/slack-setup-5.png)
   ![Slack Setup 6](/public/images/slack-setup-6.png)

You can also configure alternative ingestion modes, based on your preference, see [Ingestion Modes](/slack/ingestion-modes).

It's also worth noting that if messages get updated or deleted in Slack, that will also be reflected in Plain.
