slack/in-slack-actions.mdx, before:

---
title: "In-Slack actions"
description: "Triage your support queue super fast with in-Slack actions"
---

## In your #support channel

![Slack Actions(1) Pn](/images/slack-actions\(1\).png)

You can take common actions directly from your Slack notification channel.

- **Reply in Slack**: links you to the original support request in your customer Slack channel
- **I'll take this:** Assigns the thread to you in Plain
- **Status dropdown:** Updates the thread. All statuses are available to choose from in this dropdown.

To set up a Slack notification channel if you haven't already, head to your workspace settings → notifications, and choose the channel you'd like your internal team to get notified in.

## On the top-level message of the support request

Quickly update the status of a support request in Slack by using the ✅ or 👀 emojis on the top-level message.

- ✅: Moves the status of the thread in Plain to **Done**
- **👀**: Moves the status of the thread in Plain to **Investigating**

Only emojis added by workspace members will cause the status of the thread to update.

Commit message:

Update in-slack-actions.mdx (#192)
* Update in-slack-actions.mdx

* Update slack/in-slack-actions.mdx

Co-authored-by: Jesus <jesus@plain.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Jesus <jesus@plain.com>

slack/in-slack-actions.mdx, after:

---
title: "In-Slack actions"
description: "Triage your support queue super fast with in-Slack actions"
---

## In your #support channel

![Slack Actions(1) Pn](/images/slack-actions\(1\).png)

You can take common actions directly from your Slack notification channel.

- **Reply in Slack**: links you to the original support request in your customer Slack channel
- **I'll take this:** Assigns the thread to you in Plain
- **Status dropdown:** Updates the thread. All statuses are available to choose from in this dropdown.

To set up a Slack notification channel if you haven't already, head to your workspace settings → notifications, and choose the channel you'd like your internal team to get notified in.

## On the top-level message of the support request

Quickly update the status of a support request in Slack by using the ✅ or 👀 emojis on the top-level message.

- ✅: Moves the status of the thread in Plain to **Done**
- **👀**: Moves the status of the thread in Plain to **Investigating**

Only emojis added by workspace members will cause the status of the thread to update. 

If the thread is not yet assigned to anyone, using these emojis will assign you if you have any role besides Viewer in Plain.
