api-reference/customer-cards.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Customer cards'
sidebarTitle: 'Overview'
description: 'Live context straight from your own systems when helping customers.'
---

Customer cards are a powerful feature in Plain that let you show information from your own systems while looking at a customer or thread in Plain. This makes sure you always have important context when helping customers.

Customer cards are configured on Plain (see how to [how to create one](/api-reference/customer-cards/create-a-customer-card)) and requested by Plain from your APIs.

## High-level flow

<Note>
  For a more detailed description of the protocol, check out the [full
  spec](/api-reference/customer-cards/protocol).
</Note>

1. A thread is viewed in Plain.
2. Plain fires a POST request to your API with:

   - The thread customer's `email`, `id` and, if set, `externalId`
   - The thread's `id` and, if set, `externalId`.
   - The configured customer card `key`s

3. Your API responds with the JSON for each card
4. Cards are shown to the user in Plain.

Based on your customer card settings, Plain will send a request to your API like the below example:

<Snippet file="customer-cards/customer-cards-basic-request.mdx" />

Your API should then reply with a list of cards matching the requested keys where each card contains the components you want to display:

<Snippet file="customer-cards/customer-cards-basic-response.mdx" />

## UI Components

To define what each customer card should look like, you use the Plain UI components. All the components are documented in the [Plain UI Components](/api-reference/ui-components/) section.

You can find example customer cards and an example API you can check out [team-plain/example-customer-cards](https://github.com/team-plain/example-customer-cards). Feel free to try these out in your workspace!

## Example cards

To demonstrate what you can build with customer cards we've built some examples you can view and which are open source.

[**Customer cards Examples →**](https://github.com/team-plain/example-customer-cards)

## Playground

The UI components playground lets you build and preview the component JSON needed to create a customer card. Use this to prototype a customer card before starting to build your integration.

[**Playground →**](https://app.plain.com/developer/ui-components-playground/)

Commit message:

Added tenant to customer cards docs

api-reference/customer-cards.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Customer cards'
sidebarTitle: 'Overview'
description: 'Live context straight from your own systems when helping customers.'
---

Customer cards are a powerful feature in Plain that let you show information from your own systems while looking at a customer or thread in Plain. This makes sure you always have important context when helping customers.

Customer cards are configured on Plain (see how to [how to create one](/api-reference/customer-cards/create-a-customer-card)) and requested by Plain from your APIs.

## High-level flow

<Note>
  For a more detailed description of the protocol, check out the [full
  spec](/api-reference/customer-cards/protocol).
</Note>

1. A thread is viewed in Plain.
2. Plain fires a POST request to your API with:

   - The thread customer's `email`, `id` and, if set, `externalId`
   - The thread's `id` and, if set, `externalId`.
   - If the thread has a tenant, the tenant `id` and, if set, `externalId`.
   - The configured customer card `key`s

3. Your API responds with the JSON for each card
4. Cards are shown to the user in Plain.

Based on your customer card settings, Plain will send a request to your API like the below example:

<Snippet file="customer-cards/customer-cards-basic-request.mdx" />

Your API should then reply with a list of cards matching the requested keys where each card contains the components you want to display:

<Snippet file="customer-cards/customer-cards-basic-response.mdx" />

## UI Components

To define what each customer card should look like, you use the Plain UI components. All the components are documented in the [Plain UI Components](/api-reference/ui-components/) section.

You can find example customer cards and an example API you can check out [team-plain/example-customer-cards](https://github.com/team-plain/example-customer-cards). Feel free to try these out in your workspace!

## Example cards

To demonstrate what you can build with customer cards we've built some examples you can view and which are open source.

[**Customer cards Examples →**](https://github.com/team-plain/example-customer-cards)

## Playground

The UI components playground lets you build and preview the component JSON needed to create a customer card. Use this to prototype a customer card before starting to build your integration.

[**Playground →**](https://app.plain.com/developer/ui-components-playground/)
