api-reference/webhooks.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Webhooks'
sidebarTitle: 'Overview'
---

Webhooks allow you to get notified about events happening in your Plain workspace. You can react to these events in many ways, such as:

- Assigning threads to users based on business requirements (urgency, customer value, recurrency, etc.)
- Creating an AI-powered auto-responder
- Categorising threads by adding labels based on the their content
- Triggering internal incidents (by identifying patterns in inbound messages)
- Tracking metrics from your customer support team

## Receiving events from Plain

Events happening in your workspace ('Plain events') are delivered as Webhook requests.

In order to receive webhook requests, you need a **publicly available HTTPS** endpoint. Plain will make
an `HTTP POST` request to this endpoint whenever an event you are interested in occurs.

Once your endpoint is ready, you may create a _webhook target_ in Plain. A webhook target tells Plain what events you
are interested in and where to send those events.

You can create it by going to **Settings** → **Webhooks**, then clicking on '+ Add webhook target'

Then, you need to choose a name (e.g. 'Customer notifications'), the URL of your webhook endpoint, the events you want
to receive and whether you want to enable it straight away.

You can create up to **25 webhook targets** per workspace.

<Warning>
  Plain events may contain Personally Identifiable Information (PII). If you want to test webhooks
  with a production workspace, take the necessary precautions to avoid leaking PII to untrusted
  parties.
</Warning>

<Note>
  We have created a repository where you will find instructions on how to create a webhook endpoint
  using different programming languages. You can find it
  [here](https://github.com/team-plain/webhooks-resources/tree/main/servers).
</Note>

## Security

Webhook requests are always sent through HTTPS.

If you want, you can include basic authentication credentials in your webhook target's URL (`https://username:password@example.com`) which will then be sent along the webhook request in an `Authorization` header:

```text
Authorization: Basic cGxhaW46cm9ja3M=
```

## Delivery semantics

Plain guarantees **at-least-once** delivery of webhook requests. As such, you should make sure your webhook endpoint is idempotent. The `id` field in the [webhook request body](#body) can be used as an idempotency key.

## Handling webhook requests

Plain considers a webhook request to be successfully delivered if your endpoint returns a **2xx** HTTP status code. The contents of the response body are ignored.

Any other HTTP status code will be considered a failure, **including redirects**, which are explicitly forbidden.

## Retry policy

When a webhook request fails, Plain will keep retrying it during the **~5 days** after the first request. The delay between
retries is set by the following table:

| Retry # | Delay | Approximate time since first attempt |
| ------- | ----- | ------------------------------------ |
| 1       | 10s   | 10s                                  |
| 2       | 30s   | 40s                                  |
| 3       | 5m    | 6m                                   |
| 4       | 30m   | 36m                                  |
| 5       | 1h    | 1.5h                                 |
| 6       | 3h    | 4.5h                                 |
| 7       | 6h    | 10.5h                                |
| 8       | 12h   | 22.5h                                |
| 9       | 1d    | 2d                                   |
| 10      | 1d    | 3d                                   |
| 11      | 1d    | 4d                                   |
| 12      | 1d    | 5d                                   |

Plain keeps track of all the webhook delivery attempts and their results. Each webhook request
includes [some metadata](#webhook-metadata) that you can use in order to know which delivery attempt it is currently
being processed.

## The webhook request

Webhook requests are sent as an `HTTP POST` request to the webhook target URL.

### Headers

- `Accept`: `application/json`
- `Content-Type`: `application/json`
- `User-Agent`: Plain-Webhooks/1.0 (plain.com; help@plain.com)`
- `Plain-Workspace-Id`: The ID of the workspace where the Plain event originated
- `Plain-Webhook-Target-Id`: The ID of the webhook target this webhook request is being sent to
- `Plain-Webhook-Delivery-Attempt-Id`: The ID of the delivery attempt. It will be different on every delivery attempt
- `Plain-Webhook-Delivery-Attempt-Number`: The current delivery attempt number (starts at 1)
- `Plain-Webhook-Delivery-Attempt-Timestamp`: The time at which the delivery attempt was made. In UTC and formatted as
  ISO8601. E.g. `1989-10-28T17:30:00.000Z`
- `Plain-Event-Type`: The Plain event's type
- `Plain-Event-Id`: The ID of the Plain event. It remains the same across all of the delivery attempts

An additional `Authorization` header is sent if the webhook target URL contains authentication credentials.

### Body

The request body is a `JSON` object with the fields below.

The JSON schema for Plain the webhook request body can be found [here](https://core-api.uk.plain.com/webhooks/schema.json).

| Field             | Type     | Description                                                                                              |
| ----------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`              | `string` | The ID of the Plain event. It remains the same across all of the delivery attempts                       |
| `type`            | `string` | The Plain event's type                                                                                   |
| `webhookMetadata` | `object` | Metadata associated with the webhook request. See [Webhook Metadata](#webhook-metadata) for more details |
| `timestamp`       | `string` | The Plain event's timestamp. In UTC and formatted as ISO8601. E.g. `1989-10-28T17:30:00.000Z`            |
| `workspaceId`     | `string` | The ID of the workspace where the Plain event originated                                                 |
| `payload`         | `object` | The Plain event's payload [(Example)](/api-reference/webhooks/thread-created);                           |

### Webhook Metadata

All the following fields are also sent as [HTTP headers](#headers).

| Field                             | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `webhookTargetId`                 | `string` | The ID of the webhook target this webhook request is being sent to. This is the ID that you will find under **Settings -> Webhooks** in the Support App |
| `webhookDeliveryAttemptId`        | `string` | The ID of the delivery attempt. It will be different on every delivery attempt                                                                          |
| `webhookDeliveryAttemptNumber`    | `string` | The current delivery attempt number (starts at 1)                                                                                                       |
| `webhookDeliveryAttemptTimestamp` | `string` | The time at which the delivery attempt was made. In UTC and formatted as ISO8601. E.g. `1989-10-28T17:30:00.000Z`                                       |

Commit message:

Request signing (#78)
* Request signing docs

* Fix code lint

api-reference/webhooks.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Webhooks'
sidebarTitle: 'Overview'
---

Webhooks allow you to get notified about events happening in your Plain workspace. You can react to these events in many ways, such as:

- Assigning threads to users based on business requirements (urgency, customer value, recurrency, etc.)
- Creating an AI-powered auto-responder
- Categorising threads by adding labels based on the their content
- Triggering internal incidents (by identifying patterns in inbound messages)
- Tracking metrics from your customer support team

## Receiving events from Plain

Events happening in your workspace ('Plain events') are delivered as Webhook requests.

In order to receive webhook requests, you need a **publicly available HTTPS** endpoint. Plain will make
an `HTTP POST` request to this endpoint whenever an event you are interested in occurs.

Once your endpoint is ready, you may create a _webhook target_ in Plain. A webhook target tells Plain what events you
are interested in and where to send those events.

You can create it by going to **Settings** → **Webhooks**, then clicking on '+ Add webhook target'

Then, you need to choose a name (e.g. 'Customer notifications'), the URL of your webhook endpoint, the events you want
to receive and whether you want to enable it straight away.

You can create up to **25 webhook targets** per workspace.

<Warning>
  Plain events may contain Personally Identifiable Information (PII). If you want to test webhooks
  with a production workspace, take the necessary precautions to avoid leaking PII to untrusted
  parties.
</Warning>

<Note>
  We have created a repository where you will find instructions on how to create a webhook endpoint
  using different programming languages. You can find it
  [here](https://github.com/team-plain/webhooks-resources/tree/main/servers).
</Note>

## Security

Webhook requests are always sent through HTTPS.

If you want, you can include basic authentication credentials in your webhook target's URL (`https://username:password@example.com`) which will then be sent along the webhook request in an `Authorization` header:

```text
Authorization: Basic cGxhaW46cm9ja3M=
```

Plain also supports [request signing](/api-reference/request-signing) to verify that the request was made by Plain and not a third party.

## Delivery semantics

Plain guarantees **at-least-once** delivery of webhook requests. As such, you should make sure your webhook endpoint is idempotent. The `id` field in the [webhook request body](#body) can be used as an idempotency key.

## Handling webhook requests

Plain considers a webhook request to be successfully delivered if your endpoint returns a **2xx** HTTP status code. The contents of the response body are ignored.

Any other HTTP status code will be considered a failure, **including redirects**, which are explicitly forbidden.

## Retry policy

When a webhook request fails, Plain will keep retrying it during the **~5 days** after the first request. The delay between
retries is set by the following table:

| Retry # | Delay | Approximate time since first attempt |
| ------- | ----- | ------------------------------------ |
| 1       | 10s   | 10s                                  |
| 2       | 30s   | 40s                                  |
| 3       | 5m    | 6m                                   |
| 4       | 30m   | 36m                                  |
| 5       | 1h    | 1.5h                                 |
| 6       | 3h    | 4.5h                                 |
| 7       | 6h    | 10.5h                                |
| 8       | 12h   | 22.5h                                |
| 9       | 1d    | 2d                                   |
| 10      | 1d    | 3d                                   |
| 11      | 1d    | 4d                                   |
| 12      | 1d    | 5d                                   |

Plain keeps track of all the webhook delivery attempts and their results. Each webhook request
includes [some metadata](#webhook-metadata) that you can use in order to know which delivery attempt it is currently
being processed.

## The webhook request

Webhook requests are sent as an `HTTP POST` request to the webhook target URL.

### Headers

- `Accept`: `application/json`
- `Content-Type`: `application/json`
- `User-Agent`: Plain-Webhooks/1.0 (plain.com; help@plain.com)`
- `Plain-Workspace-Id`: The ID of the workspace where the Plain event originated
- `Plain-Webhook-Target-Id`: The ID of the webhook target this webhook request is being sent to
- `Plain-Webhook-Delivery-Attempt-Id`: The ID of the delivery attempt. It will be different on every delivery attempt
- `Plain-Webhook-Delivery-Attempt-Number`: The current delivery attempt number (starts at 1)
- `Plain-Webhook-Delivery-Attempt-Timestamp`: The time at which the delivery attempt was made. In UTC and formatted as
  ISO8601. E.g. `1989-10-28T17:30:00.000Z`
- `Plain-Event-Type`: The Plain event's type
- `Plain-Event-Id`: The ID of the Plain event. It remains the same across all of the delivery attempts

An additional `Authorization` header is sent if the webhook target URL contains authentication credentials.

### Body

The request body is a `JSON` object with the fields below.

The JSON schema for Plain the webhook request body can be found [here](https://core-api.uk.plain.com/webhooks/schema.json).

| Field             | Type     | Description                                                                                              |
| ----------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`              | `string` | The ID of the Plain event. It remains the same across all of the delivery attempts                       |
| `type`            | `string` | The Plain event's type                                                                                   |
| `webhookMetadata` | `object` | Metadata associated with the webhook request. See [Webhook Metadata](#webhook-metadata) for more details |
| `timestamp`       | `string` | The Plain event's timestamp. In UTC and formatted as ISO8601. E.g. `1989-10-28T17:30:00.000Z`            |
| `workspaceId`     | `string` | The ID of the workspace where the Plain event originated                                                 |
| `payload`         | `object` | The Plain event's payload [(Example)](/api-reference/webhooks/thread-created);                           |

### Webhook Metadata

All the following fields are also sent as [HTTP headers](#headers).

| Field                             | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `webhookTargetId`                 | `string` | The ID of the webhook target this webhook request is being sent to. This is the ID that you will find under **Settings -> Webhooks** in the Support App |
| `webhookDeliveryAttemptId`        | `string` | The ID of the delivery attempt. It will be different on every delivery attempt                                                                          |
| `webhookDeliveryAttemptNumber`    | `string` | The current delivery attempt number (starts at 1)                                                                                                       |
| `webhookDeliveryAttemptTimestamp` | `string` | The time at which the delivery attempt was made. In UTC and formatted as ISO8601. E.g. `1989-10-28T17:30:00.000Z`                                       |
